When we build a model with Keras,
it automatically initializes its weights and biases.
The weights and biases are tensors that are attached to each of the layers of our model.
We can get all the weights and biases from our model by using the Get weights method.
This method returns a list that contains the weights and biases as NumPy arrays.
So let's see how many NumPy arrays we have in our list.
Here we can see that we have four NumPy arrays in our list.
So let's check if this makes sense.
If we take a look at our model,
we can see that it has three layers,
but the first layer has zero parameters.
This means that the first layer has no weights and no biases.
However, the second and third layers do have weights and biases.
Since the weights and biases are saved in separate arrays,
then we should have two NumPy arrays from
the second layer and two NumPy arrays from the third layer.
This gives us a total of four Numpy arrays.
Therefore, it makes sense that our list contains four NumPy arrays.
Now if we print this list,
we can see that it has some arrays.
However, it is not clearly indicated which
arrays correspond to the weights and which ones correspond to the biases,
nor to which layers do they belong to.
We can get the weights and biases for
a specific layer in our network by using these statements.
First, we use the Get layer method to select a specific layer in our network.
Here we have chosen the first layer by using the keyword index equals zero.
Once we have chosen our layer,
we can use the Get weights method to get a list that
contains both the weights and biases of our chosen layer.
To just get the weights of this layer,
we choose the first element of this list by using the index equals zero.
Similarly, to only get the biases from this layer,
we select the second element of our list by using the index equals one.
Here we have chosen the first layer of our model.
However, we should note that in this particular case,
our first layer happens to be a flattened layer.
Since this layer only flattens our images,
it has no waits or biases.
Therefore the Get weights method will return an empty list,
which means that when we try to get the first or second elements,
we will get an error.
So when you're getting the weights and biases from each layer,
you should always check first whether the layer has any weights or biases at all.
Alternatively, we can also get the weights and biases
for a specific layer in our model by using the layers method.
The layers method returns a list where
each element in this list corresponds to a single layer of our network.
We can get the weights and biases of each of these layers by using a four loop,
as we have done here.
Here we get the weights and the biases of the current layer,
but not before checking whether the current layer has any weights or any biases at all.
Again, this is to prevent errors as we mentioned previously.
Once we have the weights and biases of the current layer,
we make some print statements.
The first print statement tells us the current layers, number and name.
Then we print the NumPy arrays containing the weights and biases of the current layer.
Finally, these last spring statement prints
the total number of weights and biases that we have in the current layer.
This corresponds to the number of elements in
the weights array and the number of elements in the biases array.
We also print the following statement.
This layer has no weights or biases.
If they Get weights,
method returns an empty list.
Let's look at the output of this cell.
Here we see that the first layer has index zero and it has the name flattened.
We also see that this layer has no weights and biases.
This is correct because our first layer only flattens
the images and therefore has no weights and biases.
Our second layer has the Index 1 and has the name dense.
This layer, those have weights and biases.
Here we can see the NumPy array that holds our weights.
Here we can see the NumPy array that holds our biases.
Here we see the total number of weights and the total number of biases in these arrays.
The third layer has Index 2 and has the name dense underscore one.
This layer also has weights and biases,
and we can see the corresponding NumPy arrays here.
We also see that total number of weights and total number of biases in these arrays.
If we look at the values of the weights and biases of each layer over network,
we can see that Keras initializes the biases to zero,
as we can see here.
We can also see that Keras initializes the weights through small numbers around zero.
I also wanted to point out that the name of our layers, such as flatten,
dense and dense underscore one are the same names that appear on our model.
Here we see the names flatten,
dense, and dense underscore one.
Also, if you look at the number of parameters in the second layer,
you see that he has 200,960 parameters.
If you notice this number equals the total number
of weights plus the total number of biases we printed here.
Similarly, if we look at the last layer of our network,
we can see that he has 2,560 weights and 10 biases.
This means that this layer has 2,570 total parameters.
If we look at our model summary,
we can see that it matches the number of parameters given here.